1. docker version  --> from windows I'm calling the software docker which is installed in ubuntu OS
   docker client
   docker server
   
2. docker run hello-world
   combination of 2 commands -docker create + docker start
   you have asked hey docker client give me hello world message
   docker client asks docker server
   docker server searches whether image to display hello-world is present in local cache or not
   if it is not there then it pulls the image from github
   it creates container from image. 
   Image contains startup command and file system snapshot
   when docker run is written, default startup command is executed
   
   docker create hello-world
   
   docker start -a hashed-string-copy-paste-from-create  -> attach to the container and give container's output to my terminal- whatever is happening inside the container         show me
   
 3. docker run busybox echo hello sushma
    in place of startup command run the command echo hello sushma
    will run hello sushma and will exit
        
 4. docker run busybox ls
    lists all files and folders inside busybox
    
 5. docker ps
    gives info of containers that are still running in your machine
    
 6. docker ps --all 
    all containers which are running ,which finished
    
 7. docker stop container-id 
    tell the process to stop
    
 8. docker kill container-id
    stop whatever you are doing right away and close yourself(if container is not getting stoped then use kill)
 
 6. docker logs container-id 
    to see what is there inside a container
    
 7. docker exec -i -t container-id sh
    sh -> is a command processor, sh starts terminal inside container
    -i-> attach me to stdin whatever I type in docker client CLI should run inside docker container and get o/p,make sure the stuff I type is directed to stdin of docker process, 
    -t -> pretty format
    go inside container and see what is there in it
    now you are inside the container
     1. ls  --> see the files and folders inside the contaienr
     2. cd ../
     3. ls --> you can see -> bin    lib    local  sbin   share  src -> this is the file system snapshot
     4. ctrl+d or type exit to exit
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
    
    
    
   
